However, many of them remain due to the protective elements present in the liquid that surrounds them
Then the sperm must make its way through the cervix to the womb
Usually the cervix remains tightly closed, but in this case it is open for days, which is the ovulation period for a woman
Sperm swim through cervical mucus which weakened to more aqueous consistency to facilitate passage
Once inside the cervix the sperm continues to swim towards the uterus even though millions will die trying to make it through mucus
Some sperms remain trapped in the cervical folds, but may then continue as a precautionary journey to the first group
Intrauterine muscle uterine contractions assist the sperm on their journey towards the egg
Non-resident cells of a woman's immune system mistaking sperm for foreign invaders, destroying thousands of others
The second half of the sperm head of the fallopian tube is empty while the other half swims towards a tube containing the unfertilized egg
right Now
Only a few thousand stay
Inside the fallopian tubes, small cilia of eggs pushed towards the uterus
To follow the sperm, you must rise against this movement to reach the egg
Some sperm get trapped in cilia and die
During this part of the chemicals a trip into the reproductive system causes the membranes covering the sperm's heads to change
As a result, the sperm becomes overactive
Swim stronger and faster towards their destination
At long last wait the spam hit the eggs
Only a few dozen of the original 300 million sperm remain
The eggs are covered with a layer of cells called corona radiata
The sperm must be pushed through this layer to reach the outer layer of the transparent Zona egg
When the sperm reached the transparent zona they attached to the specialized sperm receptors on the surface
That releases acrosomes to release digestive enzymes
Enable sperm to dig into a layer
Inside the transparent region are fluids that fill the narrow space outside the egg cell membrane
The first sperm to make and contact fertilization of the egg
After an incredibly risky and adventurous trip, one sperm attaches to an egg cell membrane
Within a few minutes the outer membranes of the valves and eggs pull the sperm inside
This event causes changes in the egg membrane that prevents other sperm from sticking to it
Next chemicals releases eggs that push other sperm away from the eggs
And creating an impenetrable fertilization membrane
As the transparent reaction spreads outside the zona hardens trapping any sperm is unlucky enough to be caught inside
Outside the eggs, the sperm are no longer able to attach to the transparent, zona
At the same time inside the egg the male genetic material tightly packed spreads out
For new membrane forms around the genetic material creating the male prokaryotic nucleus
Inside repairs the genetic material in chromosomes 23
The female genetic material woke up merging the sperm with the egg ending division
Resulting in the progenitor of the female nucleus, which also contains 23 chromosomes
Male and female pronuclei also formed
Spider threads like the Internet called Microtubules pull them towards each other
She joined two sets of chromosomes together
Completion of the fertilization process at this moment creates a unique genetic code
Instantly determine gender, hair color, eye color and hundreds of other characteristics
This new single cell, the fertilized egg is the beginning of a new person
And now the cilia of the fallopian tubes gently sweep the fertilized egg towards the uterus
Where he or she will transplant into the endometrium richer
Growth and maturity in the next nine months to be ready for birth